Let's keep exploring injection and
attacks by investigating another
common type of web based exploit.
The next one we're going to discuss
exploits the way websites access
information from databases.
Early in the program,
you may have learned about SQL.
You may recall, SQL is a programming
language used to create,
interact with, and
request information from a database.
SQL is used by most web applications. For
example, shopping websites use it a lot.
Imagine the databases of
an online clothing store
It likely contains a full inventory
of all the items the company sells.
Websites don't normally make users
enter the SQL queries manually.
Instead, they use things like menus,
images, and
buttons to show users
information in a meaningful way.
For example, when an online shopper clicks
a button to add a sweater to their cart,
it triggers a SQL query. The query runs in
the background where no one can see it.
You'd never know from using the menus and
buttons of a website, but
sometimes those backend queries
are vulnerable to injection attacks.
A SQL injection is an attack that
executes unexpected queries on a database.
Like cross-site scripting, SQL injection
occurs due to a lack of sanitized input.
The injections take place in the area
of the website that are designed to
accept user input. A common example
is the login form to access a site.
One of these forms might trigger
a backend SQL statement
like this
when a user enters their credentials.
Web forms, like this one, are designed
to copy user input into the statement
exactly as they're written.
The statement then sends a request
to the server, which runs the query.
Websites that are vulnerable to SQL
injection insert the user's input exactly
as it's entered before running the code.
Unfortunately, this is
a serious design flaw.
It commonly happens because web developers
expect people to use these inputs
correctly.
They don't anticipate attackers
exploiting them. For example,
an attacker might insert
additional SQL code.
This could cause the server to run
a harmful query of code that it wasn't
expecting.
Malicious hackers can target these attack
vectors to obtain sensitive information,
modify tables and even gain
administrative rights to the database.
The best way to defend against SQL
injection is code that will sanitize
the input.
Developers can write code to search for
specific SQL characters.
This gives the server a clearer
idea of what inputs to expect.
One way this is done is
with prepared statements.
A prepared statement is a coding
technique that executes
SQL statements before passing
them on to the database.
When the user's input is unknown,
the best practice is to use
these prepared statements.
With just a few extra lines of code,
a prepared statement executes the code
before passing it on to the server.
This means the code can be validated
before performing the query.
Having well written code is one of
the keys to preventing SQL injection.
Security teams work with program
developers to test applications for
these sort of vulnerabilities.
Like a lot of security tasks,
it's a team effort.
Injection attacks are just one of many
types of web-based exploits that security
teams deal with.
We're going to explore how security
teams prepare for injection attacks and
other kinds of threats.